# 20440_pset6

## Overview
At a high level, this repository contains the code and data to take the output from a limma differential expression analysis in R, and plot a volcano plot using Bokeh for our primary vs. metastatic differential expression number 1. 

Citations: 
Numpy - Harris, C.R., Millman, K.J., van der Walt, S.J. et al. Array programming with NumPy. Nature 585, 357–362 (2020). DOI: 10.1038/s41586-020-2649-2. (Publisher link).
Pandas - The pandas development team _Zenodo_ (2020)
Bokeh - Bokeh Development Team (2018). Bokeh: Python library for interactive visualization URL http://www.bokeh.pydata.org.
Limma - Ritchie ME, Phipson B, Wu D, Hu Y, Law CW, Shi W, Smyth GK (2015). “limma powers differential expression analyses for RNA-sequencing and microarray studies.” Nucleic Acids Research, 43(7), e47. doi:10.1093/nar/gkv007.
## Data
This data was generated by taking the upper quantile normalized counts from the Aurora metastatic breast cancer repository, and using limma to run a differential expression analysis in R. This generated a TopTable which had the genes, fold change, p value (both adjusted and unadjusted). Using these, we made cut offs for significance and plotted the -log_10(p value) over log2(fold change) in Bokeh. In this code, we also did some intial clean up,only considering protein coding RNAs.

## Folder Structure
There are no folders

##
If necessary run:
!pip install numpy
!pip install pandas
!pip install bokeh
These are the only 3 packages needed for this part of the code, and downloading the basic/most up to date versions will work fine. 
Then, simply run each part of the code in order without changing a thing and you will reproduce this figure. 

